Welcome to Thriller Recapped, Today, I
will show you an American Science fiction,
psychological thriller film called The Butterfly
Effect: Chapter. 3, Spoilers Ahead, watch out and
take care. This movie is the third and final
installment in the butterfly effect franchise.
The movie starts with the Protagonist Sam. We
see him in a park, sneaking on a woman and child,
and then we see him witnessing the woman being
killed. He then wakes up in an ice-filled bathtub,
his brain is being monitored by his sister, Jenna.
She asks what he saw but he avoids the question,
and he leaves. He then goes to police station,
one of the officers speculate that he’s psychic.
Sam, then identifies the man he saw
in his vision. They are amazed since
he has helped police in identifying 22
criminals in exchange of some money.
Detective Dan Glenn asks him that if he’s psychic
then he should be able to tell how he met his
wife. Sam smiles and leaves. Then we see Sam,
paying rent and all the bills of his sister,
who is always isolated in her apartment. They talk
a bit, then Jenna asks him, that when she was 15
years old, there was a fire in the house, and she
was locked in the room. So, how did Sam, entered
the house from outside and rescued her, he says
he doesn’t want to talk about it, and he leaves.
Later that night, we see Elizabeth, the sister
of Sam’s murdered girlfriend Rebecca arrives at
Sam’s apartment. She has a theory that the man who
is about to be executed for her sister’s murder,
Lonnie Flennons, is innocent. She says, she
found a diary of her sister, in which she found
a confession that her sister was cheating on Sam
with Lonnie, and he can’t be the actual killer
since they were seeing each other behind
his back. So, she wants Sam to find the
actual murderer. He denies it by saying
it’s too complicated and she leaves.
The next day, he meets, Goldberg, a man he
met in his previous time travel journeys.
Goldberg tries to be T.V.A. And reminds him of
the strict rules: He is only supposed to observe
the past events. He is not supposed to change
the past or it will change the future as well,
by giving example. In Flashback, When Sam was 15,
a house fire would have killed Jenna, but same
couldn’t see his sister dying so he rescued her,
which resulted in the fire killing his parents.
Which is consequence of Meddling with time,
he then leaves. We see Vicki, the bartender,
she seduces Sam, and they both change
hormones for few seconds, until Sam remembers
her dead girlfriend and he becomes soft.
Next day, He decides to help Elizabeth.
He goes and meets Lonnie and tells him about
the diary that he knows they both had an affair,
and which explains he is not the killer. Lonnie
then speculates that Sam killed Rebecca since
she was cheating on him. At home, Sam gets ready
to travel back in time when Rebecca was killed,
Jenna says he shouldn’t alter the past,
which he replies he made the rules.
He then travels to 1998, he bumps into
the drunk Elizabeth, and he tells her
to stay in car and lock the doors. Since
he knows Rebeca’s killer might be around.
He goes upstairs, and finds Rebeca’s body
slaughtered in half, and in the car, someone
attacks Elizabeth and kills her from behind too.
Sam returns to present, and he finds out that,
he is renting his sofa to some dude called
Pako, and that he no longer owns a car.
He goes to police station and learns that he is
the main suspect of the Rebecca’s murder case,
since his prints were found near the house. They
tell him that there is a serial killer on the
loose, who has killed 8 women including
Rebecca and Elizabeth in last decade.
Later, he calls his sister and finds out
that, Lonnie, who was a suspect in other
reality is now a Lawyer, she tells him that
he needs to stop jumping between timelines.
He meets Lonnie’s and asks him about his
whereabouts on the night of the murder.
He said that night Rebecca asked him to meet
up since Sam wasn’t around but when he saw
Sam outside the he left instead. He then shows
him that he is handicapped in this timeline,
so Sam leaves. However, like last time
Lonnie, again accuses Sam of the murders.
Next day, Sam visits Goldberg, and Goldberg says
he tried saving one life, but it resulted in death
of 8 women by a serial killer, and he shouldn’t
meddle with time. Then he says he shouldn’t go
back in the night of Rebecca’s murder which will
boil his brain, instead he should visit the scene
of third murder, but only observe this time, and
do not do anything but just see the face of killer
and then report the killer to police, so when
he comes back in time the killer will be in the
prison. Sam tries sniffing a flower, and Goldberg
refuses by saying it will make him paralyzed for
one hour. Later, Sam meets Jenna, and she refuses
to him by saying there are always consequences of
his actions, so he leaves. He then gets ready to
travel back to see the third victim Anita Barnes,
He breaks into the house and hides
in a closet upon hearing some noise.
Then we see Anita arriving, and she is
attacked by a man who tries to rape her,
but later we see, they were
trying to fantasize a rape fetish.
She says she likes it, but her boyfriend is
uncomfortable, he then goes to closet to get
some clothes and Sam is discovered, He gives Sam
a superman punch, and Sam returns to present.
We see Pako, asking Sam to
pay for the rent of couch.
Later, He goes to Goldberg and finds
out that he is missing since many years.
At this point, we can say that things have
changed drastically from meddling with time.
He then decides to go and see Anita, the third
supposed victim, to know what she is doing after
the encounter. She says she has restraint order
against him, since he was hiding in her closet,
and she pepper sprays him. He then goes to meet
his siter, she finds out that he time traveled
again without telling her, so she is mad,
he asks her how Anita Barnes is still alive,
he said Goldberg could have explained what’s
going on, but he is missing. She says it’s good
that he is missing, she then claims that Goldberg
tried convicting Sam of all the murders, she then
claims further that she erased the evidence so
that Sam can escape, and that future Sam is the
serial killer. He is shocked and cannot accept
that he can kill anyone, he breaks down that the
only thing he wants to do is help people not hurt
anyone, and he promises not to time travel again.
He then goes to the bar and visits Vicki, the
bartender. He asks if she can come over for
hormone sandwich, but she says she is engaged
now, he says maybe in another life, and decides
to leave. Once he leaves, we see someone dressed
like Texas chainsaw guy and cutting her in half.
The next day, the Detectives find out that Vicki
is dead, and Sam was the last customer to leave.
So, they arrest him for interrogation. Detective
Glenn accuses him of being the serial killer,
when Jenna comes with a lawyer, Sam
steals the evidence notebook of Detective.
He is bailed and they go to home, where
he gets ready to travel back in time.
He goes to the place where they found bodies
of other victims to see the serial killer,
he looks a bit and finds “Welcome
Home”, written on the wall,
and he returns to the present.
He finds himself on Jenna’s couch
and she leaves for work, and tells him that she
paid all the bills, and asks him if he can cook
dinner for them. In other timeline Sam used to
cover everything, their roles are reversed now.
He then, tries to find a pattern for the murders,
and he goes to the place where they found bodies,
as walks inside, looking for clues,
the team of detectives arrest him.
In police station, the detective tells him that
Sam is charged for killing 7 Women and 1 Man,
he asks who was the man and finds out
Lonnie, is also murdered. In the lockup,
he sees Detective Glenn, and tries to convince him
that the killer is still outside, he is not buying
all this since evidence are against him. Then Sam
tells him that how detective met his wife his wife
mistook Glenn for M.C. Hammer on their first
meeting. Glenn comes back since only he and his
wife knows about this, he says he travelled
back in time and saw it in other timeline
when Glenn asked him for the first time about it.
Glenn releases Sam by saying find that Son of the.
Later, Sam goes to Jenna’s house and finds some
flowers by Goldberg. he sniffs them which turns
out to be the one that paralyzes you. He still
manages to go in tub and travel back in time,
He goes to the same abandoned place,
and finds Goldberg brutally slaughtered.
Running for help Sam falls to
the ground by a foothold trap.
The killer approaches him, and revealing herself,
it is Jenna. She says Surprise, and reveals she
can travel in time as well just like her brother.
She loves for her brother like Alabama sweet home.
Also, that she killed Rebecca,
since Rebecca was cheating on Sam.
Further, she had to kill the other women because
she perceived them as rivals for Sam's affections
like Vicki, who was changing hormones with Sam in
one timeline. And other ones because they were new
witnesses, result of Sam's rescue attempts. She
tries to kiss Sam but he looks away and he travels
back to the day of the fire that killed his
parents; and this time instead of saving Jenna,
he traps her in her burning room. Knowing
what the future holds. And saves his parents.
He then wakes up in a timeline in which he has
married Elizabeth. They have a daughter called
Jenna; they go to their house. Where he is greeted
by his parents, Rebecca, and a healthy Goldberg.
Sam's daughter Jenna puts her fashion
doll on the grill and smiles as it burns.
Then the movie ends, Let me know in the comments
what would you have done to prevent all this,
and please like and subscribe,
it really helps the channel.